# AEG: Automatic Exploit Generation  
In this work, a tool namely **AEG** is developed and described. Its duty is the automatic exploit generation of vulnerable C programs. This system inputs the source code, finds vulnerabilities, determines if the vulnerability found is exploitable or not, if so, generates an input string as the exploit of the binary program. If the input string is generated, it could be used directly as the input string of the vulnerable program to spawn a general-purpose shell.  
The system contains the following steps to generate an exploit:
1. Pre-processing input source code in two steps:
- Compile and generate the binary file using *GCC*
- Generate Intermediate code (i.e. bytecode) by *LLVM*
2. The intermediate code is analyzed and returns a *max* value that represents the maximum size of symbolic data.
3. The intermediate code, the safety property, and the *max* value is taken in this step. Then using the symbolic execution method, path constraints are generated and with a vector containing source-level information, is passed to the next level.
4. The outputs of the previous step alongside the compiled file are passed to DBA. A concrete value is calculated by solving path constraints and DBA follows a dynamic analysis approach to extract runtime information.
5. The path constraints and the runtime information is used to generate the exploit formula.
6. The exploit generated by previous steps is used for verification. If the exploit outputs considered results, the exploit will be returned. Otherwise, the system informs that the program is not exploitable.
  
Two main challenges of this work are:  
- *State explosion problem*: AEG utilizes preconditioned symbolic execution to solve this challenge.
- *Path selection problem*: AEG uses a priority queue for selecting an appropriate path using some heuristics to prioritize paths.  
  
Other challenges include path selection problem, environment modeling problem, mixed analysis challenge, and exploit verification problem.
